How important is money? Because people
are more concerned about money now than
ever before. And for very good reason.
You know, bills are going up. Wages
aren't matching that increase. And yet,
we're all told it's somehow our fault.
And Kaiji, despite being a series which
came out three decades ago, manages to
capture all of this perfectly. It's
quite funny how the villain of this
story, this disgustingly sadistic,
brutally cruel, outright sickening old
man, shares a lot of beliefs with your
average boomer on Facebook, complaining
about how young people have it so easy
these days. Like seriously, you'll be
shocked by just how similar they are.
But firstly, when it comes to the
phrase, "Oh, money doesn't matter." In
my opinion, it's really just not that
simple. While sure, you probably do get
to the point where it doesn't really
improve your quality of life anymore,
that's not the majority of us. It's
certainly not me. Money absolutely
matters when you're worrying about
whether you can pay for rent and food,
etc. And I'll come back to myself and
the money from this channel, etc. in a
bit, but Ittokai, the series main
character, lives a life of stagnation
and decadence. Set in the middle of
Japan's last decade, with unemployment
at incredibly high rates and the economy
stagnating, he sees no hope for the
future. He can't get a job anywhere. And
even if he did, it wouldn't really pay
enough for him to do anything. And so he
passes his days with mindless
distraction, driven mad by his
situation, miserable and hopeless, until
one day a lone shark shows up. Not for
him, but for a loan he co-signed for a
coworker many years ago. Relatively
small at the time, but a diabolic
interest rate has ballooned it to just
shy 4 million yen. About $30,000 in
today's money once you account for
inflation and conversion, etc. And
salaries are also quite a bit lower in
Japan than the US. So, it's even more
than it sounds. As such, he faces either
a life of barely scraping enough to get
by, never saving anything, having no
hope of ever owning his own place, etc.,
i.e. just life in the UK right now, or a
night of gambling on a very, very
sketchy ship where if he wins, he has a
chance of escaping that debt. And yes,
this is the series which inspired Squid
Game. Now, just for full transparency, I
live in the UK and I still work
full-time alongside this channel, which
really surprised a lot of people because
they go, "Oh, well, you've got 140,000
subs." But besides the fact that your
subscriber count has zero effect on how
much you pay and doesn't actually really
mean anything anyway, the channel just
doesn't make enough for me to live off
with the state we're in right now.
However, whilst it will still be a long
time before I can get a house deposit,
you know, you get the idea, right? It's
not changed my life in terms of how I
live and what's around me, but it does
bring enough that combined with my job
as well, my car needs a pile replaced or
my computer's keyboard needs replacing
or whatever, I'm not going to be up at
night stressing about how I'm going to
be able to afford it. I can actually put
aside a little bit to save each month.
There's some hope for the future.
Neither of which was the case before
this channel started to grow. And I'm
aware of how incredibly lucky I am. You
know, I'm very blessed to be able to say
that because if it was not for the
success of this channel, despite working
full-time, I would have basically zero
hope for the future, but that was not
the case a few decades ago. And Kaiji
spells this out pretty explicitly.
There's a point in one of the later
games where he has to go to this hotel
that's been converted into this
nightmarish pit where the ultra rich
watch the participants walk across a
narrow steel beam meters up in the air,
forced to push each other off if they
want to win. But this whole city the
hotel was in was supposed to be for the
next generation. When the bubble burst,
these private companies bought it all up
with not a single care for how it would
affect anyone. How many lives could have
changed for the better if they hadn't
done so? All because it lets these
people with more money than they have a
clue what to do with have this one
evening of excitement once in a blue
moon. And I doubt you need any
convincing that there's a ton of people
out there with this exact mindset which
leads me on to the villain of the series
in Hyodo. Now Kyodo makes his money
purely off things with an essentially
guaranteed return. renting out
properties, casinos, loans, essentially
all ways in which he earns money simply
on account of having a lot of money
already. Someone like me couldn't open a
casino because I couldn't afford to pay
out any initial losses. Likewise, I
can't start giving out loans because I
don't have the money to spare. But Hyodo
can. He can just wait for time to bring
his money back. And we see this idea of
the rich gets richer all throughout
Kaiji at the start of season 2 in this
underground labor camp. The villain of
this arc, the manager of the workers, is
able to amass this absurd sum of wealth
because he had the money to briefly go
to the surface. Whilst he was up there,
he got these custommade dice which he
could then used to rig the gambling
matches and get richer and richer.
Again, not through any sort of skill,
just purely because things were rigged
in his favor. And going back to Hildo,
we don't know anything about his younger
years. you know, what kind of family he
was born into, etc. But the point here
is pretty obvious, right? And I feel
like we see this a lot in real life, or
maybe not a lot, but certainly far too
often. Main example being people who
were just born into wealth or even just
happened to be born a lot earlier back
when properties were far more affordable
can now just rent several of them out
and never have to worry about money
again. you know, sneering and looking
down on those pushed into hard times by
the exact actions they're taking, by
being this pointless middleman that just
spikes rent up and makes it impossible
for anyone to afford their own place.
And yet, they'll forever be convinced
that this money comes from some great
intelligence of theirs, right? Some
incredible smart, some brilliant
decision when in reality they've not
done anything spectacular. They just
happen to have a lot of money initially.
And there was a great experiment on
Monopoly players which showed this exact
behavior. At random, one of the players
was chosen to start with twice as much
money, roll twice as many dice, etc. All
these kind of advantages which massively
rigged the game in their favor. And yet,
the vast majority of them not only
believed it was down to their own skill
and not all these initial benefits, but
they also tried to convince everyone
else around them that that was the case.
And we see exactly this in Hyd. There's
a part in Kaiji where he's stuck in this
underground labor camp, which I'll also
come back to, but he earns enough to win
a brief pass to the outside. The only
way he could possibly earn enough to
permanently buy both his and his
comrades freedom is by winning the
jackpot on this giant, extremely rigged
pachinko machine at one of TI's casinos.
That's only ever paid out twice,
surprise, surprise, to Hyodo and his
right-handed man. We soon find out that
there's a whole bunch of things going on
behind the scenes that can be changed to
make it significantly harder or easier
to win. And yet, in spite of knowing it
was rigged in his favor and all of his
workers knowing it was rigged in his
favor, he still tries to play it off
otherwise, claiming only the most
skilled and accomplished individuals can
win. It tests a man's worth, their
skill, luck, and personality. definitely
not just whoever owns the remote which
tilts the machine forward. And on the
subject of the underground labor camp, I
think the most common yet frustrating
belief that you hear from people that
oppose a lot of what I've said is this
whole idea of, oh, this generation is
only poor because they buy Netflix and
coffee, etc. Besides how easy it is to
just pull up data showing the absurd
rise in both housing prices and
groceries relative to wages. You know,
the 5 on Netflix is not the issue here.
But I feel like Kaiji addresses this
whole sentiment in perhaps the best
example I've seen of why it is just so
completely absurd. The camp Kaiji is
sent to is brutal and dehumanizing.
backbreaking, unsafe labor, the absolute
bare minimum food and bedding with zero
entertainment or a respite from it all.
Two paths are laid out in front of them.
Either live off nothing, scrape every
penny together, and maybe maybe 15 years
from now, he can be free if nothing
happens. Although obviously something is
inevitably going to happen to him,
working 7 days a week down here in this
dangerous, dirty hell hole. though
really that's a pipe dream or the second
route is that he spends just a little
bit of money each time to actually have
some sort of respite from it all and
maybe it takes him 16 years instead but
these little expenditures actually keep
him sane. Now in the series Kaiji does
struggle to control his desire to ration
his money out with the foreman
pressuring him to keep buying. But
whilst Kaiji's circumstances are
obviously totally different to anyone
watching this, when you get these people
to say, "Well, if you're complaining
about money, just stop paying for
Netflix and a coffee every other week."
This is really what they're expecting
from you. Work a hard job, come back,
eat nothing, do nothing, sleep, and
repeat for two decades. In fact, get a
second job and start doing that on
weekends, too. The same way Kaiji works
every single day. even though that
doesn't even change his circumstances
and he'd still never really be able to
get anything for himself. Yet, according
to these people, that's what he should
do. That's his issue here, that he's not
doing all of that and not the fact that
he's simply just not paid enough. Now,
obviously, yes, in Kaiji's case, he did
end up here because of, you know,
reckless gambling. But nowadays, a good
chunk of people are in these
circumstances just on account of the
state of the economy. But why does this
happen? Why are people left to struggle
so much whilst their CEO buys a 14th
yacht and has more money than they know
what to do with whilst their employees
aren't paid enough instead of, you know,
them only having two yachts and an
employees actually having enough money.
Kyodo gives the very honest, simple
truth. When he first meets Kaiji, he
gives him a surprisingly open speech. He
admits that he has the money to help but
simply won't. The reason he demonstrates
rather than explains by violently
beating one of the victims of the steel
beam race with broken legs. Whether he
suffers or not is of no concern. Only my
own happiness matters. His pain does not
affect me. It's effortless for him to
push that to one side, even when it's
right in front of them. No amount of
convincing him would change that.
There's nothing that can be said to him
to make him change his opinion. And
what's more, he claims those who would
cry over the unfairness of life and
claim we should help each other disgust
me. Why don't they send money instead?
Just completely ignoring the fact that
obviously they don't have billions to
give away like he does. Now, how was
Kaiji working at this minimum wage job
ever supposed to give away money when
he's not even making enough to live? And
I love how the series really captures
the feel of these jobs perfectly with
the expectation to go above and beyond
with zero actual reward for doing so and
not even really being paid enough
initially. Anyway, now obviously there
is a ton more nuance to everything I
said in this video that I just really
didn't have time to go through. Really,
this video just kind of ended up being
me ranting about certain attitudes
online and how Kaiji kind of shows
examples of this. However, I do of
course completely agree and I'm sure I
get a ton of comments from people who
didn't watch up to this point mentioning
this. But yes, Kaiji at the start of the
series and honestly a fair chunk of the
other people who end up in these games
are the type of people that are just
very difficult to help. You know, and I
do speak about this in my recent video
on Kaiji. It's one of my shortest
videos, but Endo's basketball analogy at
the start really nails it. It's a bit of
a loophole. there's no hope, so they act
this way. So, they have even less hope.
But when the basketball net is up so
high, it's no wonder no one tries to
throw a shot at her when there's no real
hope of anything coming from it. Of
course, yes, Kaiji's peers at the start
of the series are absolute losers. They
are very much just giving in to base
pleasures, don't take enough
responsibility for themselves, etc.,
etc. But how many of them would still be
like that if that basketball ring was in
reach? Some of them probably would be.
Yes. But Endo even says to Kaiji, "You
wouldn't be like this, going around
vandalizing cars and being a degenerate
if you had money. If you could afford to
do things and buy things you wanted."
And when he does end up getting a job
later on, don't you think his attitude
towards it would be totally different if
it paid enough for him to buy a house
and support a whole family on this one
wage the way things used to be as
opposed to him barely making enough to
get by? And that's the crazy thing about
this series that you can make these
comparisons to Kaiji, but with how
things used to be, he's only in this
situation because of an absurd debt that
was forced onto him out of nowhere. that
wasn't his fault. Whereas now that can
just be to stand for someone who's
working a normal job. They have also had
this awful economic situation forced
onto them through no fault of their own.
Now, I've spent the last day or so
trying to figure out how to end this
video. I didn't just want to end on
Hyoda's speech again like I did in the
previous Kaiju video, which you should
check out if you enjoyed this one. But
whilst I don't know exactly what can be
done about this, I do know that of all
the ideas floating around out there of
what to do, none of them will ever
happen as long as what Hiodo says
carries weight. Man is willing to bear
extraordinary things if one simply waves
a bit of money under their noses. It is
that eagerness which allows the rich to
live in ease. If the poor were all to
agree that they had no need of money,
the king would disappear. However, this
will never happen because in desperation
to become the king themselves, they
strive for money, reinforcing the
position of the king. However, a king
must still be careful. He must dispense
to each of them their own fair share of
satisfaction, although in truth, he
works them to their very bones.